Okay,
guys.
So now we're going to discuss the workbook before close event.
And as the name suggests,
this before close event gets triggered whenever you try to close a workbook and it gets
triggered before the workbook is close.
Okay,
So,
actually,
whatever code you right in there will be executed before the actual closing of the workbook
happens,
and you can get it.
Of course,
by going to your vb a editor.
Ah,
double clicking here on this workbook and selecting from this menu workbook and selecting
both foreclose from this menu.
So this is how you can get the before close event.
Now,
there is actually a parameter here called Cancel.
And what this parameter does is that it allows you to actually cancel the closing off the
workbook.
So by default,
its value is false.
However,
if we change its value to true,
if you set its value to true,
then the workbook it's not gonna close.
Okay?
So you can actually prank someone with that parameter.
So see that?
So I'm just going to set cancel equals true,
okay.
And then a message box.
This workbook is not closing.
Okay,
so I'm just gonna try closing the workbook now.
And this code is gonna be triggered when I tried to close the work.
But so I'm just gonna close it here and you can see her message box.
This workbook is not closing.
And the workbook did not close.
Okay,
so by default,
the value off cancel is false.
However,
if it is set to true in your procedure or in whatever code you right in the workbook before
close event,
the workbook is not going to be close.
Okay,
so Ah,
this is the workbook before close event,
we're gonna have another more practical example next.
Okay,
guys.
So now we're gonna have another example a more practical one axity for the workbook before
closed events.
This is actually the dashboard.
The I show as an example,
dashboard on my excel dashboards scores.
And you can see here that I've got a workbook before close event running on that dashboard
.
And what that does is that it calls a macro cold show ribbon says to actually put excel to
the previous status of showing the ribbon.
Okay,
because actually,
the ribbon is hidden whenever this workbook is opened.
And also the sheet dashboard is activated whenever this workbook is open.
So I'm putting Excel back to its normal status of showing the ribbon and showing old tools
,
you know,
at the top.
Because what actually happens when this workbook is closed.
And if if I don't show the ribbon or if I don't run the macro is called show ribbon before
closing the workbook.
Is that the foreman?
A bar is not gonna appear when we open excel afterwards.
So if we open even any other workbook or any workbook and excel or open a New Excel
workbook,
the former bar is good not gonna show.
And,
you know,
despite the fact that it's very easy to show the foreman a bar by going to the view menu on
the ribbon and just sticking the formula bar,
some users might not know that.
So if you're using a computer with other people is well sharing a computer,
you know,
no,
having the formula bar showing will seem awkward.
OK,
so this is why I try to make it simple.
If somebody else is using a computer with me,
OK,
so I'm actually going to show you that practically so actually gonna remove the show ribbon
Macro,
This is a macro or procedure that I've written in another module.
I'm just calling it inside the workbook before close event.
Okay,
so I'm just going to remove it here,
and I'm gonna save my workbook.
And this way,
now,
the ribbon is hidden.
And actually not the whole bourbon will be hidden when we open in your workbook.
Just a four minute bar.
So I'm just gonna close here.
The v b a editor.
I'm gonna close this workbook and save it.
Okay,
Now I have opened a new workbook.
A blank workbook,
actually,
and as you can see here,
the ribbon ah has disappeared because I have not run the show ribbon macro.
So you can actually show the formula bargain,
But clicking on the view menu on the ribbon here and checking the formula bar.
And then you can see the formula bar here.
But actually the formula bar has disappeared because I had not run the show ribbon macro.
So this is a practical example.
We're actually having the show.
Ribbon macro,
run on the before close event can make Excel act normally or show the four middle bar size
to not have things seem awkward for other users or so who are not very good with Excel or
not familiar with this option of viewing the formula bar using the view menu here on the
ribbon.
Next we will see another example is,
Well,
okay,
so another thing that I use the workbook before close event for his dashi automate my work
.
So maybe if from building a dashboard,
if I'm building a dashboard and I'm using a lot of tabs in my dashboard here.
So there is a road,
eight others the dashboard.
And this stop is the one that should show to the customer.
And this is the interface of the dashboard.
And there's an analysis Stab.
There could be another top here called lists.
And sometimes I might build a dashboard that has lots of tabs,
maybe six or seven.
And I just want to close my workbook.
And,
you know,
normally the the other tabs,
except for the dashboard tab,
should be hidden on.
I just don't want to hide the manually like right,
click and click on hide.
I just want them to be hidden once I closed the workbook.
Okay,
so we're going to see how to do that.
So I use this a lot,
actually.
So here on the before close workbook event,
in addition to the coal show ribbon line here which is actually gonna show the ribbon and
make things not awkward for other Excel users,
I might write,
actually a procedure to hide my worksheets so as not to need to hide them manually before I
close my workbook.
Okay,
I'm not hiding them in this case here,
because this is an example dashboard that I showed to the students.
I need everything to be shown for them.
But normally in real life,
I would actually hide the other worksheets.
Except for the dashboard worksheet.
Okay,
So any other worksheets that are using the background is they They are considered the
backstage of this dashboard.
I would hide them.
Okay,
So I'm actually going to dim ws is work sheet.
So I'm gonna actually declare a worksheet object variable.
And I can actually say for each ws in this workbook worksheets next ws so I can actually
write some code to hide the worksheets except for the dashboard worksheet.
So if ws thought name is not equal to dashboard,
then ws start visible equals Excel Sheet hidden.
And if so,
this actually will hide my worksheet if its name is not dashboard.
Okay,
so let's try that.
I'm just gonna try here,
closing the workbook.
OK,
so let's say I have been working on this workbook and I opened all the tabs because they
needed to do some maintenance on this dashboard.
Maybe add more data or do some amendments or whatever.
Okay.
And I'm just gonna close.
My workbook here says he can see air before closing.
All the worksheets have been hidden except for the dashboard worksheet.
Okay,
so I'm gonna save it here.
And I say,
I'm going to say that now I've reopened again.
As you can see here,
all the the other worksheets,
except for the dashboard worksheet,
are actually hidden right now.
Okay,
so if I need to start working again,
I cannon hide them.
I can actually create another procedure as well.
Just a normal procedure without an event that I would run that would actually Ian hide
Omani worksheets if I want to start working in doing maintenance so I can create another
procedure that would actually on Haida only worksheets,
right?
So you can do that.
I believe you can do that.
I want you to attempt to do that on your own,
Okay?
It's just going to be a simple for each loop,
looping through all the worksheets and unhygienic them.
And even if the worksheet is unhindered,
nothing is gonna happen.
Is just going to stay on hidden or visible.
Okay,
so I want you to attempt to do that.
So Ah,
that was the before close event.
Thank you very much,
guys,
for watching this video I'll see on the next one.